Hey, everybody.
Welcome back to boost your income with
bootstrap to WordPress.
And in this lecture, we're gonna
Style the Blog Excerpt with CSS.
[MUSIC]
Hey, hey, welcome back.
Okay.
So, what we're gonna do here is style this
blog page that we coded
in the last lecture.
Let's make it look good.
Make it look like this.
Let's do it.
Jump into your code editor, into your CSS,
that is custom dot CSS.
Right here under your styles,
your layout styles,
you should see your footer styles here.
We're going to add a comment here, and
this is going to be the blog styles.
And right under here,
this is where we're gonna style
our blog excerpts and
the rest of our blog once we get to it.
So, let's start off by saying,
post, I wanna style the post, and
eventually we're gonna
add a couple things here.
We're gonna add a class and an ID for
our widgets and our comments.
But right now,
we're just gonna style the post.
Position relative, border solid one pixel,
triple D, and then the background
will be white for the posts.
Margin zero, zero 40, and then we're
going to add some border radius,
webkit, border radius.
We're going to say four pixels, and
then we're going to have to
add the moz border radius.
Four pixels as well,
and then border radius.
So we can make sure we're
covered on all fronts.
Give that a Save.
Let's give that a little look here,
see what that looks like.
Cool.
It's looking better.
Let's keep going.
Now we're gonna select
the header within post.
And also, we're going to select
a couple of other things.
Oops, here we go.
Post and then post excerpt.
There we go, and we're going to
give that padding 20 pixels.
Again, here,
we're going to tack on a couple more
selectors once we get into
a couple future lectures.
But right now,
let's just stick with these.
Save it, check it out.
All right.
We're given some padding here, looks good.
After that, let's style the post header.
Level three, heading, margin,
we're going to give that zero, zero, 15.
That's 15 pixels on the bottom,
zero everywhere else.
Padding, same deal, zero, zero, 15.
Border bottom will be solid 1 pixel,
triple D.
And while we're here, why don't we just
style the post, header level one heading,
margin zero, zero, 15,
padding zero, zero, 15.
Pretty much the same.
Border, bottom, solid, one pixel,
triple D, and font size 24 pixels.
Now, some of you who may be a little
more advanced in CSS than some other
students might recognize that I did
something a little redundant here.
It's totally fine to leave this as is.
Nothing's gonna break.
However, there is a better way to
code these two sections right here.
Maybe some of you know what it is,
maybe some of you don't, but either way,
I'm gonna show you.
Do you notice that the margin padding and
border for the H3 and H1 are identical?
So I just coded this twice.
Basically, what I could have done here and
what I will do is just add the post
header, level one heading and
the post header H3.
Give it those styles.
And then,
I'm going to specifically style the H1.
I'm going to remove these and
say font size 24 pixels.
So I don't have to write this out twice.
These have the same styles.
H1 just has a little additional style.
I don't need to see,
code the same thing over and over again.
There we go.
Kudos to you if you notice that.
All right.
Save that, and let's just have a look.
There we go, looking better,
looking better.
Now the level one heading
doesn't appear yet.
That's going to be in the future
lecture where we code
the full blog post, but it's there and
now I don't have to deal with it.
Post image,
we want that to be height auto.
Once we get in to WordPress,
we're going to be using
a skeleton WordPress theme, that we're
going to build our theme on top of.
And there are a couple of styles in
there that conflict with our styles.
So I'm just putting this here, so we don't
lose it or forget about it in the future.
Basically, we need to
set the height to auto.
Because sometimes WordPress,
the styles that this theme we're gonna use
to build our theme on top of, it will
set a height on those features images.
And it kinda makes our images look
weird when we resize our browser.
So long story short, add this and
you won't have a headache later.
Post-details font-size 12,
we want that to be small,
and the width to be 90%.
Why?
Check it out.
Here we go, we're getting there.
You can see the font size for
the post details here.
It's smaller.
The 168 is over here and that's gonna
turn into the comment bubble over here.
The reason why we made this 90% is because
we want space for the comment bubble.
Let's get back in there.
All right, at this point I just
wanna hold up for a second.
I just realized something.
I led you a little bit astray
back here in our blog at HTML.
I apologize if I confused you
because I realize that I used
span tags and the class glif icon and
glif icon user time folder,
whatever I used and
you might have been confused because
we haven't done this at all so far.
And the reason why it's habit,
because I use glyphicons all the time.
And they're the fonticons, but
they're called fontawesome now and
the version is new.
And the version that
we're using in Bootstrap
to WordPress is the latest one at
the time of the recording of this video.
And so,
I'm using an even older version here.
So basically, what we need to do,
it's very simple,
change those spans to i tags and
then glyph icon to f a.
So f a fa-user.
Go ahead and change all those instances,
and there should only be a few.
Go ahead and do that.
Shouldn't take you very long at all.
And don't worry, we haven't done it at all
throughout the home page, so you don't
need to go back and try and fix anything
there because we're good over there.
Okay.
So
looks like we already have one down here.
Fa fa, itags, okay.
Save that.
Now, what you need to do is take that
first post, this post that you just edited
copy that and
remove these other ones because they have
the cliff icon markup and
just paste that two more times and
now you should be good.
Paste that, there you go.
So the icons are there we're using
the correct icons and we're good.
So, now let's go back to our CSS.
Continue from where we left
off here under post details.
Now, we can select post details and
then i.fa.
That selects the i with a class of fa.
Padding left ten pixels.
Okay, now we want to select post details,
I.fa,
and first-child.
So, what this psuedo-selector will
do here is select the first i class,
i with a class of fa in the post details.
So, there are three or four or five, even.
It doesn't matter how many there are,
but this will select only the first one,
allowing us to style that one.
Giving it padding, zero, because we don't
want padding left on the first child.
Save it.
Check it out.
Cool.
We spaced these out a little bit.
I also just realized that
this time icon isn't working.
Let's go back and just double check.
See what's missing.
Scroll up to your first post.
So, I class fa fa time.
So, I'm assuming there is no time icon,
and it's something different.
I actually do know it off by heart,
it is fa clock dash zero.
Save it, check it out.
There we go.
So just make sure to
add it to other posts.
FA clock O instead of time.
This is the beauty of once we start
using WordPress because instead of
editing each of those posts that we added,
we'd only have to edit one, and
every single one through the entire
website will be updated.
That's the amazing part.
Save it.
Now, I think you're good.
Okay.
Let's get back to our CSS.
That's what this lecture
is all about after all.
Now, let's style that comment bubble.
Right here is where we are going
to reserve the section for
styling the comments
within our blog posts, but
we also can style our post-comments-badge.
We want that to be
a circle in the top right,
so height 70px, width 70px,
position absolute,
top 25px, right 20px, border none.
And we want some webkit-border-radius
that will be 100%,
moz-border-radius 100%, and
border-radius 100% covering all fronts.
And we're going to make this background
green which will be the 79b044.
And text line center.
And then display table.
I'm hoping you know what comes next.
Post comments badge A.
We're selecting the comment
within the post comments badge.
Display table-cell now that means we
can vertically align it in the middle.
Meaning, it will always be vertically
centered no matter how large the comments
badge and no matter how large the text.
Color white, font size 20 pixels,
line height 20 pixels,
save it, check it out.
There is our comments badge.
One thing I wanna do is make
this icon display block.
So we're gonna go here and
say post-comments-badge i.fa
display block, font-size 15,
just a little bit larger,
adding 0, margin-bottom 4 pixels
just to space it out a little bit.
And then,
why don't we just add another style here,
comments-badge:hover, background color.
And we're gonna make it a little
bit darker but green 8bc653.
Save that.
There it is, hover over that.
Looks good.
It's actually a lighter green,
I apologize.
I said a darker green, but
it's actually a lighter green.
So, there are the excerpts.
Now, there's a couple things we
forgot to style our header here,
why don't we go ahead and do that?
So scroll up to your layout section,
way, way, way up here.
Here it is.
And let's position these
styles just under section H3.
Right there.
It could really be anywhere in
the section or anywhere in the CSS, but
I like organizing it based on
where it will be easiest to find.
So we're gonna select feature image and
display table width 100%.
And then feature image default,
so we're gonna have
a few feature image fallbacks,
background URL,
dot dot slash image,
stuff dash feature.jpg, no repeat.
Background size cover and
we also have another feature image.
.feature-image-default-alt is the one
we're using on this page specifically.
This one is called hipster-stuff.jpg,
background-size: cover;.
Okay, now in here, right after this
feature image H1, display table cell.
You see how we're using
this trick now a lot?
Middle.
So, now, we vertically aligned that text,
so that H1 could be any size
based on the page you add.
And we want it to always be in
the center now matter what.
And this is how you do it.
Text line, center, and then color white.
Okay, check it out.
Boom.
That's beautiful and
I think that if we scroll we
should have a paralux background.
There we go.
And it scrolls at a fast speed
because we made data speed 2.
See how it scrolls quite fast.
There it is.
This little thing here I noticed,
we need some margin here
at the top of our excerpt.
I know what that is if we
head back to our HTML,
we need to, up here,
I think we already added it.
We have div with the class of rho,
here it is, and ID primary.
We need to style
the primary ID in our CSS.
So head back to CSS, and we're in the
right section, so let's go under our H3.
Section H3 again and style primary.
That's going to have padding-top: 40px and
padding-bottom: 40px.
Now check it out.
There we go.
Padding top 40 and padding bottom 40,
plus a little bit because of this element.
Thought I was going to
let you off that easy?
Yeah, right.
One more thing that I
messed up in this lecture.
Right here.
I-Class FA folder.
What it used to be was folder open alt.
That is wrong.
Change that to FA folder.
Make sure to change all those instances.
Now, your font awesome icons will be
perfect and won't be missing any.
And that is styling our articles,
our excerpts right here, and
we're gonna move on to the next lecture.
We're gonna add some widgets and
style those up, and
then we're on to the next section.
See you there.
[MUSIC]